\input texinfo  @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename ../../info/elisp.info

@ifset VOL1
@set volflag
@set voltitle Volume 1
@end ifset

@ifset VOL2
@set volflag
@set voltitle Volume 2
@end ifset

@ifset volflag
@settitle GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual: @value{voltitle}
@end ifset
@ifclear volflag
@settitle GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual
@end ifclear
@include docstyle.texi

@c %**end of header

@c See two-volume-cross-refs.txt.
@tex
@ifset VOL1
\message{Formatting for two volume edition...Volume 1...}
%
% Read special toc file, set up in two-volume.make.
\gdef\tocreadfilename{elisp1-toc-ready.toc}
%
% Don't make outlines, they're not needed and \readdatafile can't pay
% attention to the special definition above.
\global\let\pdfmakeoutlines=\relax
%
% Start volume 1 chapter numbering at 1; this must be listed as chapno0.
\global\chapno=0
@end ifset
@ifset VOL2
\message{Formatting for two volume edition...Volume 2...}
%
% Read special toc file, set up in two-volume.make.
\gdef\tocreadfilename{elisp2-toc-ready.toc}
%
% Don't make outlines, they're not needed and \readdatafile can't pay
% attention to the special definition above.
\global\let\pdfmakeoutlines=\relax
%
% Start volume 2 chapter numbering at 27; this must be listed as chapno26
\global\chapno=26
@end ifset
@end tex


@c Version of the manual and of Emacs.
@c (See comments for EDITION in emacs.texi)
@set VERSION  3.1
@include emacsver.texi
@set DATE October 2014

@c in general, keep the following line commented out, unless doing a
@c copy of this manual that will be published.  The manual should go
@c onto the distribution in the full, 8.5 x 11" size.
@c @set smallbook

@ifset volflag
@smallbook
@end ifset

@ifset smallbook
@smallbook
@end ifset

@c per rms and peterb, use 10pt fonts for the main text, mostly to
@c save on paper cost.
@c Do this inside @tex for now, so current makeinfo does not complain.
@tex
@ifset smallbook
@fonttextsize 10
@end ifset
\global\hbadness=6666 % don't worry about not-too-underfull boxes
@end tex

@c Combine indices.
@synindex cp fn
@syncodeindex vr fn
@syncodeindex ky fn
@syncodeindex pg fn
@c We use the "type index" to index new functions and variables.
@c @syncodeindex tp fn

@copying
@iftex
This is edition @value{VERSION} of the @cite{GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual},@*
@end iftex
@ifnottex
This is the @cite{GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual}
@end ifnottex
corresponding to Emacs version @value{EMACSVER}.

Copyright @copyright{} 1990--1996, 1998--2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``GNU General Public License,'' with the
Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual,'' and with the Back-Cover
Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the license is included in the
section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have the freedom to copy and
modify this GNU manual.  Buying copies from the FSF supports it in
developing GNU and promoting software freedom.''
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Emacs lisp
@direntry
* Elisp: (elisp).               The Emacs Lisp Reference Manual.
@end direntry

@titlepage
@title GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual
@ifset volflag
@subtitle @value{voltitle}
@end ifset
@subtitle For Emacs Version @value{EMACSVER}
@subtitle Revision @value{VERSION}, @value{DATE}

@author by Bil Lewis, Dan LaLiberte, Richard Stallman,
@author the GNU Manual Group, et al.
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying

@sp 2
Published by the Free Software Foundation @*
51 Franklin St, Fifth Floor @*
Boston, MA 02110-1301 @*
USA @*
ISBN 1-882114-74-4

@sp 2
Cover art by Etienne Suvasa.
@end titlepage


@c Print the tables of contents
@summarycontents
@contents


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Emacs Lisp

@ifset WWW_GNU_ORG
@html
<p>The homepage for GNU Emacs is at
<a href="/software/emacs/">https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/</a>.<br>
For information on using Emacs, refer to the
<a href="/software/emacs/manual/emacs.html">Emacs Manual</a>.<br>
To view this manual in other formats, click
<a href="/software/emacs/manual/elisp.html">here</a>.
@end html
@end ifset

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::            Introduction and conventions used.


Appendices

* Antinews::                Info for users downgrading to Emacs 25.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: The license for this documentation.
* GPL::                     Conditions for copying and changing GNU Emacs.
* Tips::                    Advice and coding conventions for Emacs Lisp.
* GNU Emacs Internals::     Building and dumping Emacs;
                              internal data structures.
* Standard Errors::         List of some standard error symbols.
* Standard Keymaps::        List of some standard keymaps.
* Standard Hooks::          List of some standard hook variables.

* Index::                   Index including concepts, functions, variables,
                              and other terms.

@ignore
* New Symbols::             New functions and variables in Emacs @value{EMACSVER}.
@end ignore

@c Do NOT modify the following 3 lines!  They must have this form to
@c be correctly identified by 'texinfo-multiple-files-update'.  In
@c particular, the detailed menu header line MUST be identical to the
@c value of 'texinfo-master-menu-header'.  See texnfo-upd.el.

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---
 ---------------------------------

Here are other nodes that are subnodes of those already listed,
mentioned here so you can get to them in one step:

Introduction

* Caveats::                 Flaws and a request for help.
* Lisp History::            Emacs Lisp is descended from Maclisp.
* Conventions::             How the manual is formatted.
* Version Info::            Which Emacs version is running?
* Acknowledgments::         The authors, editors, and sponsors of this manual.


@end detailmenu
@end menu


@include intro.texi
@include objects.texi
@include numbers.texi
@include strings.texi

@include lists.texi
@include sequences.texi
@include records.texi
@include hash.texi
@include symbols.texi


@c appendices

@include anti.texi
@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include doclicense.texi
@node GPL
@appendix GNU General Public License
@include maps.texi
@include hooks.texi

@include index.texi



@ignore
@node New Symbols
@unnumbered New Symbols Since the Previous Edition

@printindex tp
@end ignore

@bye


These words prevent "local variables" above from confusing Emacs.
